What is Linux?
So of course, we are going to learn Linux, but we do want to know what exactly is Linux is an operating
system.
It's just like any other operating system.
For example, Microsoft has Windows.
Apple has Mac Sun, which is now owned by Oracle.
They have Solaris running on Sparke Hardware.
So Linux is an operating system which sits in the middle of your hardware and the users and the users
are the one who run the applications.
So it's like a middleman or a bridge that takes the commands from users and translate them to hardware.
So look at this picture.
So you see a computer, right?
So without an operating system, this computer is considered like a dumb terminal.
It doesn't do anything.
So how does it work?
So we have this terminal, which is, of course, a piece of brick.
You open the tray of that computer, you insert your CD or DVD in that CD or DVD has the operating system
image sitting on it, whether it's a Windows or whether it's Linux or whichever upbring system that
you are installing.
So you bought your computer from that operating system.
So once you booting it up, it goes through the installation process.
That installation process is going to ask you a bunch of questions like how do you want the operating
system to be configured?
How do you want your dissertation?
How do you want how many users you want to have installed and so on.
So once the installation is done, then at the end of the installation, it's going to ask you to reboot.
You reboot the computer and it comes up to the Volcom screen and say welcome to Linux or welcome to
Windows or whatever the operating system that you're installing.
So then you could attach external devices to it.
For example, you could attach keyboard to it, you could attach a mouse to it.
So you use these mouse and keyboards, you type a certain command, certain, you use applications and
type them, and then you send it to your operating system.
Then your operating system takes those commands and forwarded to other hardware or other system peripherals.
So some of them are, for example, the printer.
So you if you are running an application, for example, you running Microsoft, would you type it in
with your keyboard and then you want to print that document?
Right.
So the operating system will take that document and send it to your printer and your printer will spit
out the document that you want to print or if you are running other programs, for example, you are
online, you're checking your email or you are running some online program or even games.
So you are using your keyboard or your mouse, you communicating with your operating system in the operating
system, communicates with your hardware, and that's how it communicates to other devices on the network.